The Gandhi-Jinnah Talks have eminent significance with regard to the political problems of India
 and the Pakistan Movement. The talks between the two great leaders of the Sub-continent began in
 response to the general public’s desire for a settlement of Hindu-Muslim differences.
On July 17, 1944, Gandhi wrote a letter to Quaid-i-Azam in which he expressed his desire to meet him.
The Gandhi-Jinnah talks began in Bombay on September 19, 1944, and lasted till the 24th of the month.
Gandhi’s real purpose behind these talks was to extract from Jinnah an admission that the whole proposition
 of Pakistan was absurd.
Quaid-i-Azam painstakingly explained the basis of the demand of Pakistan. “We maintain”, he wrote to Gandhi,
 “that Muslims and Hindus are two major nations by any definition or test of a nation. We are a nation of a 
100 million. We have our distinctive outlook on life and of life. By all the cannons of international law,
 we are a nation”. He added that he was “convinced that the true welfare not only of the Muslims but of the
 rest of India lies in the division of India as proposed in the Lahore Resolution”.
Gandhi on the other hand maintained that India was one nation and saw in the Pakistan Resolution “Nothing
 but ruin for the whole of India”. “If, however, Pakistan had to be conceded, the areas in which the Muslims
 are in an absolute majority should be demarcated by a commission approved by both the Congress and the Muslim
 League. The wishes of the people of these areas will be obtained through referendum. These areas shall form a
 separate state as soon as possible after India is free from foreign domination. There shall be a treaty of
 separation which should also provide for the efficient and satisfactory administration of foreign affairs,
 defense, internal communication, custom and the like which must necessarily continue to be the matters of
 common interest between the contracting countries”.
This meant, in effect, that power over the whole of India should first be transferred 
to Congress, which thereafter would allow Muslim majority areas that voted for separation to be constituted,
 not as independent sovereign state but as part of an Indian federation.

Gandhi contended that his offer gave the substance of the Lahore Resolution. Quaid-i-Azam did not
 agree to the proposal and the talks ended.