From March 22 to March 24, 1940, the All India Muslim League held its annual session
 at Minto Park, Lahore. This session proved to be historical.
In this event quaid-e-azam said many things in which the important one was: 
Mussalmans are a nation according to any definition of nation. We wish our people to 
develop to the fullest spiritual, cultural, economic, social and political life in a 
way that we think best and in consonance with our own ideals and according to the genius 
of our people”.
K. Fazl-ul-Haq, the then Chief Minister of Bengal, moved the historical
 resolution which has since come to be known as Lahore Resolution or Pakistan Resolution.

The Resolution declared: “No constitutional plan would be workable or acceptable
 to the Muslims unless geographical contiguous units are demarcated into regions 
which should be so constituted with such territorial readjustments as may be necessary. 
That the areas in which the Muslims are numerically in majority as in the North-Western and 
Eastern zones of India should be grouped to constitute independent states in which the constituent
 units shall be autonomous and sovereign”.

It further reads, “That adequate, effective and mandatory safeguards shall be 
specifically provided in the constitution for minorities in the units and in the regions
 for the protection of their religious, cultural, economic, political, administrative and
 other rights of the minorities, with their consultation. Arrangements thus should be made 
for the security of Muslims where they were in a minority”.
The Resolution repudiated the concept of United India and recommended the creation of
 an independent Muslim state consisting of Punjab, N. W. F. P., Sindh and Baluchistan 
in the northwest, and Bengal and Assam in the northeast. The Resolution was seconded 
by Maulana Zafar Ali Khan from Punjab,
Sardar Aurangzeb from the N. W. F. P., Sir Abdullah Haroon from Sindh, and Qazi Esa from 
Baluchistan, along with many others.
Having passed the Pakistan Resolution, the Muslims of India changed their ultimate goal. 
Instead of seeking alliance with the Hindu community, 
they set out on a path whose destination was a separate homeland for the Muslims of India.
