The Government of India Act of 1935 was practically implemented in 1937. 
The provincial elections were held in the winter of 1936-37
According to the results of the elections, Congress, as the oldest, 
richest and best-organized political party, emerged as the single largest representative
 in the Legislative Assembles. Yet it failed to secure even 40 percent of the 
total number of seats. Thus the results decline gandhi's claim of representing whole india
Muslim League's condition was also not good.Out of 491 seats , muslim league won only 106 seats.

The final results of the elections were declared in February 1937. 
The Indian National Congress had a clear majority in Madras, U. P., C. P., 
Bihar and Orrisa. It was also able to form a coalition government in Bombay and 
N. W. F. P. Congress was also able to secure political importance in Sindh and Assam, 
where they joined the ruling coalition. Thus directly or indirectly, Congress was in power in 
nine out of eleven provinces.

The Congress refused to set up its government until the British agreed to their demand 
that the Governor would not use his powers in legislative affairs. Many discussions took place 
between the Congress and the British Government and at last the British Government consented, 
although it was only a verbal commitment and no amendment was made in the Act of 1935. Eventually, 
after a four-month delay, Congress formed their ministries in July 1937.

The Congress proved to be a pure Hindu party and worked during its reign only for the betterment of the Hindus.
 Twenty-seven months of the Congress rule were like a nightmare for the Muslims of South Asia. 
Some of the Congress leaders even stated that they would take revenge from the Muslims for the last 700
 years of their slavery.

 After taking charge in July 1937, Congress declared Hindi as the national language and Deva Nagri 
as the official script. The Congress flag was given the status of national flag, slaughtering of
 cows was prohibited and it was made compulsory for the children to worship the picture of Gandhi at 
school. Band-i-Mataram, an anti-Muslim song taken from Bankim Chandra Chatterji’s novel Ananda Math,
 was made the national anthem of the country. Religious intolerance was the order of the day. Muslims
 were not allowed to construct new mosques. Hindus would play drums in front of mosques when Muslims
 were praying.

The Congress ministries did their best to weaken the economy of Muslims. 
They closed the doors of government offices for them, which was one of the main sources of income
 for the Muslims in the region. They also harmed Muslim trade and agriculture. When Hindu-Muslim 
riots broke out due to these biased policies of the Congress ministries, the government pressured the judges;
 decisions were made in favor of Hindus and Muslims were sent behind bars.

At the outbreak of the World War II, the Viceroy proclaimed India’s involvement without prior
 consultations with the main political parties. When Congress demanded an immediate transfer of
 power in return for cooperation of the war efforts, the British government refused. As a result C
ongress resigned from power. Quaid-i-Azam asked the Muslims to celebrate December 22, 1939 as a day of 
deliverance and thanksgiving in token of relief from the 
tyranny and oppression of the Congress rule.